docs/docs/extras/testing.rst, before:

Testing
-------

Isso is tested by the `nose`_ tool. You should also install the `coverage`_
module to receive code coverage statistics.

.. code-block:: sh

    $ pip install nose coverage

Nose needs your Isso package to be installed as a site package to work, else it
will complain with:

.. code-block:: sh

    pkg_resources.DistributionNotFound: The 'isso' distribution was not found and is required by the application

When running Isso via ``nosetests``, you need to be aware that it will use the
packaged version of Isso in your ``site-packages``, not the one you have in
your current working directory.

Use ``pip install -e .`` to install Isso as an "editable" package (the package
in ``site-packages`` will be a symlink to your current development directory).

You can run tests independently via ``nosetests [options] isso/`` or use Isso's
standard test suite via ``make tests coverage``.

.. _nose: https://nose.readthedocs.io/en/latest/
.. _coverage: https://coverage.readthedocs.io/en/latest/

Commit message:

treewide: Replace nosetests with pytest
Nosetests has long been abandoned by its authors and will no
longer run under Python 3.10.
Pytest seems to be its spiritual successor as a test runner
and seems widely accepted in the community.

- Adjust `Makefile` accordingly and recommend installing
  `pytest`, `pytest-cov` pip packages
- Adjust `tox.ini` accordingly
- Adjust `releaser.conf` accordingly
- Adjust `releasing.rst` accordingly
- Adjust docs accordingly
- Adjust GitHub Actions CI file accordingly

docs/docs/extras/testing.rst, after:

Testing
-------

Isso is tested by the `pytest`_ tool. You should also install the `coverage`_
module with the `pytest-cov`_ plugin to receive code coverage statistics.

.. code-block:: sh

    $ pip install pytest pytest-cov coverage

Pytest needs your Isso package to be installed as a site package to work, else it
will complain with:

.. code-block:: sh

    pkg_resources.DistributionNotFound: The 'isso' distribution was not found and is required by the application

When running Isso via ``pytest``, you need to be aware that it will use the
packaged version of Isso in your ``site-packages``, not the one you have in
your current working directory.

Use ``pip install -e .`` to install Isso as an "editable" package (the package
in ``site-packages`` will be a symlink to your current development directory).

You can run tests independently via ``pytest [options] isso/`` or use Isso's
standard test suite via ``make tests coverage``.

.. _pytest: https://docs.pytest.org/
.. _pytest-cov: https://github.com/pytest-dev/pytest-cov
.. _coverage: https://coverage.readthedocs.io/en/latest/
