docs/docs/index.rst, before:

:orphan:

Overview
========

Welcome to Isso's documentation. This documentation will help you get started
fast. If you run into any problems when using Isso, you can find the answer in
troubleshooting guide or you can ask me on IRC or GitHub.

Documentation overview:

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   guides/quickstart
   reference/installation
   guides/troubleshooting

What's Isso?
------------

Isso is a lightweight commenting server similar to Disqus. It allows anonymous
comments, maintains identity and is simple to administrate. It uses JavaScript
and cross-origin ressource sharing for easy integration into (static) websites.

No, I meant "Isso"
------------------

Isso is an informal, german abbreviation for "Ich schrei sonst!", which can
roughly be translated to "I'm yelling otherwise". It usually ends the
discussion without any further arguments.

In germany, Isso `is also pokémon N° 360`__.

.. __: http://bulbapedia.bulbagarden.net/wiki/Wynaut_(Pok%C3%A9mon)

What's wrong with Disqus?
-------------------------

No anonymous comments (IP address, email and name recorded), hosted in the USA,
third-party. Just like IntenseDebate etc. When you embed Disqus, they
can do anything with your readers (and probably mine Bitcoins, see the loading
times).

Other options
-------------

Isso is not the only open-source commenting server. You can find an overview at
`lisakov.com: Open source comments <https://lisakov.com/projects/open-source-comments/>`_.

Some popular options are:

* `Commento <https://commento.io/>`_, written in Go. Requires a
  `PostgreSQL <https://www.postgresql.org/>`_ database.

* `Remark42 <https://remark42.com/>`_, written in Go.

* `Staticman <https://staticman.net/>`_, written in Node.js. Adds comments
  directly to repository of static sites.

* `schnack <https://schnack.cool/>`_, written in Node.js.

Commit message:

docs: index: sidebar+search in intro, encourage contribs

docs/docs/index.rst, after:

:orphan:

Overview
========

Welcome to Isso's documentation. This documentation will help you get started
fast. If you run into any problems when using Isso, you can find the answer in
`troubleshooting guide <guides/troubleshooting>`_ or you can
:ref:`get in contact <contact>`

Once you're familiar with Isso, check out the sidebar and the search on the
left to find further information.

.. note::
   Contributions to the documentation and to the project as a whole are
   welcome! See :doc:`/docs/contributing/index` and
   :doc:`/docs/contributing/documentation` for more details.

Documentation overview:

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   guides/quickstart
   reference/installation
   guides/troubleshooting

What's Isso?
------------

Isso is a lightweight commenting server similar to Disqus. It allows anonymous
comments, maintains identity and is simple to administrate. It uses JavaScript
and cross-origin ressource sharing for easy integration into (static) websites.

No, I meant "Isso"
------------------

Isso is an informal, german abbreviation for "Ich schrei sonst!", which can
roughly be translated to "I'm yelling otherwise". It usually ends the
discussion without any further arguments.

In germany, Isso `is also pokémon N° 360`__.

.. __: http://bulbapedia.bulbagarden.net/wiki/Wynaut_(Pok%C3%A9mon)

What's wrong with Disqus?
-------------------------

No anonymous comments (IP address, email and name recorded), hosted in the USA,
third-party. Just like IntenseDebate etc. When you embed Disqus, they
can do anything with your readers (and probably mine Bitcoins, see the loading
times).

Other options
-------------

Isso is not the only open-source commenting server. You can find an overview at
`lisakov.com: Open source comments <https://lisakov.com/projects/open-source-comments/>`_.

Some popular options are:

* `Commento <https://commento.io/>`_, written in Go. Requires a
  `PostgreSQL <https://www.postgresql.org/>`_ database.

* `Remark42 <https://remark42.com/>`_, written in Go.

* `Staticman <https://staticman.net/>`_, written in Node.js. Adds comments
  directly to repository of static sites.

* `schnack <https://schnack.cool/>`_, written in Node.js.
