docs/docs/reference/client-config.rst, before:

Client Configuration
====================

You can configure the client (the JS part) with custom data attributes,
preferably in the script tag which embeds the JS:

.. code-block:: html

    <script data-isso="/prefix/"
            data-isso-css="true"
            data-isso-css-url="null"
            data-isso-lang="ru"
            data-isso-max-comments-top="10"
            data-isso-max-comments-nested="5"
            data-isso-reveal-on-click="5"
            data-isso-avatar="true"
            data-isso-avatar-bg="#f0f0f0"
            data-isso-avatar-fg="#9abf88 #5698c4 #e279a3 #9163b6 ..."
            data-isso-vote="true"
            data-isso-vote-levels=""
            data-isso-page-author-hashes="f124cf6b2f01,7831fe17a8cd"
            data-isso-reply-notifications-default-enabled="false"
            src="/prefix/js/embed.js"></script>

Furthermore you can override the automatic title detection inside
the embed tag, as well as the thread ID, e.g.:

.. code-block:: html

    <section id="isso-thread" data-title="Foo!" data-isso-id="/path/to/resource"></section>

Overriding translation strings
------------------------------

Additionally, you can override any translation string for any language by adding
a ``data-isso-`` attribute that is equal to the translation key (found `here`__) with
``-text-[lang]`` appended to it. So, for example, if you want to override the
english translation of the ``postbox-notification`` message, you could add:

.. code-block:: html

    data-isso-postbox-notification-text-en="Select to be notified of replies to your comment"

.. __: https://github.com/isso-comments/isso/blob/master/isso/js/app/i18n/en.js

data-isso-* directives
------------------------

.. _data-isso:

data-isso
   Isso usually detects the REST API automatically, but when you serve the JS
   script on a different location, this may fail. Use ``data-isso`` to
   override the API location:

   .. code-block:: html

       <script data-isso="/isso" src="/path/to/embed.min.js"></script>

.. _data-isso-css-url:

data-isso-css-url
    Set URL from which to fetch ``isso.css``, e.g. from a CDN.
    Defaults to fetching from the API endpoint.

    .. code-block:: html

        <script src="..." data-isso-css-url="/path/to/isso.css"></script>

    Default: ``"{api-endpoint}/css/isso.css"``

.. _data-isso-css:

data-isso-css
    Set to ``false`` prevents Isso from automatically appending the stylesheet.

    .. code-block:: html

        <script src="..." data-isso-css="false"></script>

    Default: ``true``

.. _data-isso-lang:

data-isso-lang
    Always render the Isso UI in this language, ignoring what the
    user-agent says is the preferred language.  The default is to
    honor the user-agent's preferred language, and this can be
    specified explicitly by using ``data-isso-lang=""``.

    The value of this property should be a `BCP 47 language tag
    <https://tools.ietf.org/html/bcp47>`_, such as ``en``, ``ru``, or
    ``pt-BR``.
    Language tags are processed case-insensitively, and may use
    underscores as separators instead of dashes (e.g. ``pt_br`` is treated the
    same as same as ``pt-BR``).

    You can find a list of all supported languages by browsing the
    `i18n directory
    <https://github.com/isso-comments/isso/tree/master/isso/js/app/i18n>`_ of
    the source tree.

    Default: ``null``

.. _data-isso-default-lang:

data-isso-default-lang
    Render the Isso UI in this language when the user-agent does not
    specify a preferred language, or if the language it specifies is not
    supported.  Like :ref:`data-isso-lang`, the value of this property should
    be a `BCP 47 language tag <https://tools.ietf.org/html/bcp47>`_,
    such as ``en``, ``ru``, or ``pt-BR``.

    If you specify both ``data-isso-default-lang`` and ``data-isso-lang``,
    ``data-isso-lang`` takes precedence.

    Default: ``"en"``

    .. versionadded:: 0.12.6

.. _data-isso-max-comments-top:

data-isso-max-comments-top
    Number of top level comments to show by default. If some comments are not
    shown, an "X Hidden" link is shown.

    Set to ``"inf"`` to show all, or ``"0"`` to hide all.

    Default: ``"inf"``

.. _data-isso-max-comments-nested:

data-isso-max-comments-nested
    Number of nested comments to show by default. If some comments are not
    shown, an "X Hidden" link is shown.

    Set to ``"inf"`` to show all, or ``"0"`` to hide all.

    Default: ``5``

.. _data-isso-reveal-on-click:

data-isso-reveal-on-click
    Number of comments to reveal on clicking the "X Hidden" link.

    Default: ``5``

.. _data-isso-avatar:

data-isso-avatar
    Enable or disable avatar generation. Ignored if gravatar is enabled on
    server side, since gravatars will take precedence and disable avatar
    generation.

    Default: ``true``

.. _data-isso-avatar-bg:

data-isso-avatar-bg
    Set avatar background color. Any valid CSS color will do.

    Default: ``"#f0f0f0"``

.. _data-isso-avatar-fg:

data-isso-avatar-fg
    Set avatar foreground color. Up to 8 colors are possible. The default color
    scheme is based in `this color palette <http://colrd.com/palette/19308/>`_.
    Multiple colors must be separated by space. If you use less than eight colors
    and not a multiple of 2, the color distribution is not even.

    Default: ``"#9abf88 #5698c4 #e279a3 #9163b6 #be5168 #f19670 #e4bf80 #447c69"``

.. _data-isso-vote:

data-isso-vote
    Enable or disable voting feature on the client side.

    Default: ``true``

.. _data-isso-vote-levels:

data-isso-vote-levels
    List of vote levels used to customize comment appearance based on score.
    Provide a comma-separated values (eg. ``"0,5,10,25,100"``) or a JSON array (eg. ``"[-5,5,15]"``).

    For example, the value ``"-5,5"`` will cause each ``isso-comment`` to be given one of these 3 classes:

    - ``isso-vote-level-0`` for scores lower than ``-5``
    - ``isso-vote-level-1`` for scores between ``-5`` and ``4``
    - ``isso-vote-level-2`` for scores of ``5`` and greater

    These classes can then be used to customize the appearance of comments (eg. put a star on popular comments)

    Default: ``null``

.. _data-isso-page-author-hashes:

data-isso-page-author-hashes
    Provide the hash (or list of hashes) of the current page's author. Any
    comments made by those authors will be given the ``isso-is-page-author``
    class. This can be styled using CSS.

    The hash of a user can be found by checking the ``data-hash`` parameter on the
    ``<div>`` tag containing their comment. This is what the element looks like:

    .. code-block:: html

        <div class="isso-comment isso-no-votes" id="isso-14" data-hash="41faef0a49fc">

    According to this example, your script tag would look something like this:

    .. code-block:: html

        <script src="..." data-isso-page-author-hashes="41faef0a49fc"></script>

    When adding multiple hashes to support multiple page authors, separate the
    hashes by a command and/or space. All of the following are acceptable
    (although the hashes are made up):

    - ``data-isso-page-author-hashes="86g7n8g67nm,8m787mg8"``
    - ``data-isso-page-author-hashes="86g7n8g67nm 8m787mg8"``
    - ``data-isso-page-author-hashes="86g7n8g67nm, 8m787mg8"``

    For example, these CSS rules make the page author's name a sort of
    turquoise color, and the comment's background a lighter version of that:

    .. code-block:: css

        .isso-comment.isso-is-page-author > .isso-text-wrapper {
            background-color: #bae0ea;
        }

        .isso-comment.isso-is-page-author > .isso-text-wrapper > .isso-comment-header > .isso-author {
            color: #19798d;
        }

    Default: ``null``

    .. versionadded:: 0.13


.. _data-isso-reply-notifications-default-enabled:

data-isso-reply-notifications-default-enabled
    Set to ``true`` to make the reply notifications checkbox on the postbox be
    checked by default. Otherwise, the user will have to manually opt-in to
    reply notifications.

    This setting will have no effect if ``reply-notifications`` are not enabled
    on the server.

    Default: ``false``

    .. versionadded:: 0.13


Deprecated Client Settings
--------------------------

In earlier versions the following settings had to mirror the
corresponding settings in the server configuration, but they are now
read out from the server automatically.

data-isso-reply-to-self
    .. deprecated:: 0.12.6

    Set to ``true`` when spam guard is configured with ``reply-to-self = true``.

data-isso-require-author
    .. deprecated:: 0.12.6

    Set to ``true`` when spam guard is configured with ``require-author = true``.

data-isso-require-email
    .. deprecated:: 0.12.6

    Set to ``true`` when spam guard is configured with ``require-email = true``.

data-isso-reply-notifications
    .. deprecated:: 0.12.6

    Set to ``true`` when reply notifications is configured with ``reply-notifications = true``.

data-isso-gravatar
    .. deprecated:: 0.12.6

    Set to ``true`` when gravatars are enabled with ``gravatar = true`` in the
    server configuration.

data-isso-feed
    .. deprecated:: 0.13

    Enable or disable the addition of a link to the feed for the comment
    thread. The link will only be valid if the appropriate setting, in
    ``[rss]`` section, is also enabled server-side.

Commit message:

Add sorting option for comments
Add sorting and pagination support for comments, including new API query parameters for sort order and offset. Adjust comment fetching logic accordingly.

Closes https://github.com/isso-comments/isso/issues/4

docs/docs/reference/client-config.rst, after:

Client Configuration
====================

You can configure the client (the JS part) with custom data attributes,
preferably in the script tag which embeds the JS:

.. code-block:: html

    <script data-isso="/prefix/"
            data-isso-css="true"
            data-isso-css-url="null"
            data-isso-lang="ru"
            data-isso-max-comments-top="10"
            data-isso-max-comments-nested="5"
            data-isso-reveal-on-click="5"
            data-isso-sorting="newest"
            data-isso-avatar="true"
            data-isso-avatar-bg="#f0f0f0"
            data-isso-avatar-fg="#9abf88 #5698c4 #e279a3 #9163b6 ..."
            data-isso-vote="true"
            data-isso-vote-levels=""
            data-isso-page-author-hashes="f124cf6b2f01,7831fe17a8cd"
            data-isso-reply-notifications-default-enabled="false"
            src="/prefix/js/embed.js"></script>

Furthermore you can override the automatic title detection inside
the embed tag, as well as the thread ID, e.g.:

.. code-block:: html

    <section id="isso-thread" data-title="Foo!" data-isso-id="/path/to/resource"></section>

Overriding translation strings
------------------------------

Additionally, you can override any translation string for any language by adding
a ``data-isso-`` attribute that is equal to the translation key (found `here`__) with
``-text-[lang]`` appended to it. So, for example, if you want to override the
english translation of the ``postbox-notification`` message, you could add:

.. code-block:: html

    data-isso-postbox-notification-text-en="Select to be notified of replies to your comment"

.. __: https://github.com/isso-comments/isso/blob/master/isso/js/app/i18n/en.js

data-isso-* directives
------------------------

.. _data-isso:

data-isso
   Isso usually detects the REST API automatically, but when you serve the JS
   script on a different location, this may fail. Use ``data-isso`` to
   override the API location:

   .. code-block:: html

       <script data-isso="/isso" src="/path/to/embed.min.js"></script>

.. _data-isso-css-url:

data-isso-css-url
    Set URL from which to fetch ``isso.css``, e.g. from a CDN.
    Defaults to fetching from the API endpoint.

    .. code-block:: html

        <script src="..." data-isso-css-url="/path/to/isso.css"></script>

    Default: ``"{api-endpoint}/css/isso.css"``

.. _data-isso-css:

data-isso-css
    Set to ``false`` prevents Isso from automatically appending the stylesheet.

    .. code-block:: html

        <script src="..." data-isso-css="false"></script>

    Default: ``true``

.. _data-isso-lang:

data-isso-lang
    Always render the Isso UI in this language, ignoring what the
    user-agent says is the preferred language.  The default is to
    honor the user-agent's preferred language, and this can be
    specified explicitly by using ``data-isso-lang=""``.

    The value of this property should be a `BCP 47 language tag
    <https://tools.ietf.org/html/bcp47>`_, such as ``en``, ``ru``, or
    ``pt-BR``.
    Language tags are processed case-insensitively, and may use
    underscores as separators instead of dashes (e.g. ``pt_br`` is treated the
    same as same as ``pt-BR``).

    You can find a list of all supported languages by browsing the
    `i18n directory
    <https://github.com/isso-comments/isso/tree/master/isso/js/app/i18n>`_ of
    the source tree.

    Default: ``null``

.. _data-isso-default-lang:

data-isso-default-lang
    Render the Isso UI in this language when the user-agent does not
    specify a preferred language, or if the language it specifies is not
    supported.  Like :ref:`data-isso-lang`, the value of this property should
    be a `BCP 47 language tag <https://tools.ietf.org/html/bcp47>`_,
    such as ``en``, ``ru``, or ``pt-BR``.

    If you specify both ``data-isso-default-lang`` and ``data-isso-lang``,
    ``data-isso-lang`` takes precedence.

    Default: ``"en"``

    .. versionadded:: 0.12.6

.. _data-isso-max-comments-top:

data-isso-max-comments-top
    Number of top level comments to show by default. If some comments are not
    shown, an "X Hidden" link is shown.

    Set to ``"inf"`` to show all, or ``"0"`` to hide all.

    Default: ``"inf"``

.. _data-isso-max-comments-nested:

data-isso-max-comments-nested
    Number of nested comments to show by default. If some comments are not
    shown, an "X Hidden" link is shown.

    Set to ``"inf"`` to show all, or ``"0"`` to hide all.

    Default: ``5``

.. _data-isso-reveal-on-click:

data-isso-reveal-on-click
    Number of comments to reveal on clicking the "X Hidden" link.

    Default: ``5``

.. _data-isso-avatar:

data-isso-avatar
    Enable or disable avatar generation. Ignored if gravatar is enabled on
    server side, since gravatars will take precedence and disable avatar
    generation.

    Default: ``true``

.. _data-isso-avatar-bg:

data-isso-avatar-bg
    Set avatar background color. Any valid CSS color will do.

    Default: ``"#f0f0f0"``

.. _data-isso-avatar-fg:

data-isso-avatar-fg
    Set avatar foreground color. Up to 8 colors are possible. The default color
    scheme is based in `this color palette <http://colrd.com/palette/19308/>`_.
    Multiple colors must be separated by space. If you use less than eight colors
    and not a multiple of 2, the color distribution is not even.

    Default: ``"#9abf88 #5698c4 #e279a3 #9163b6 #be5168 #f19670 #e4bf80 #447c69"``

.. _data-isso-vote:

data-isso-vote
    Enable or disable voting feature on the client side.

    Default: ``true``

.. _data-isso-vote-levels:

data-isso-vote-levels
    List of vote levels used to customize comment appearance based on score.
    Provide a comma-separated values (eg. ``"0,5,10,25,100"``) or a JSON array (eg. ``"[-5,5,15]"``).

    For example, the value ``"-5,5"`` will cause each ``isso-comment`` to be given one of these 3 classes:

    - ``isso-vote-level-0`` for scores lower than ``-5``
    - ``isso-vote-level-1`` for scores between ``-5`` and ``4``
    - ``isso-vote-level-2`` for scores of ``5`` and greater

    These classes can then be used to customize the appearance of comments (eg. put a star on popular comments)

    Default: ``null``

.. _data-isso-page-author-hashes:

data-isso-page-author-hashes
    Provide the hash (or list of hashes) of the current page's author. Any
    comments made by those authors will be given the ``isso-is-page-author``
    class. This can be styled using CSS.

    The hash of a user can be found by checking the ``data-hash`` parameter on the
    ``<div>`` tag containing their comment. This is what the element looks like:

    .. code-block:: html

        <div class="isso-comment isso-no-votes" id="isso-14" data-hash="41faef0a49fc">

    According to this example, your script tag would look something like this:

    .. code-block:: html

        <script src="..." data-isso-page-author-hashes="41faef0a49fc"></script>

    When adding multiple hashes to support multiple page authors, separate the
    hashes by a command and/or space. All of the following are acceptable
    (although the hashes are made up):

    - ``data-isso-page-author-hashes="86g7n8g67nm,8m787mg8"``
    - ``data-isso-page-author-hashes="86g7n8g67nm 8m787mg8"``
    - ``data-isso-page-author-hashes="86g7n8g67nm, 8m787mg8"``

    For example, these CSS rules make the page author's name a sort of
    turquoise color, and the comment's background a lighter version of that:

    .. code-block:: css

        .isso-comment.isso-is-page-author > .isso-text-wrapper {
            background-color: #bae0ea;
        }

        .isso-comment.isso-is-page-author > .isso-text-wrapper > .isso-comment-header > .isso-author {
            color: #19798d;
        }

    Default: ``null``

    .. versionadded:: 0.13


.. _data-isso-reply-notifications-default-enabled:

data-isso-reply-notifications-default-enabled
    Set to ``true`` to make the reply notifications checkbox on the postbox be
    checked by default. Otherwise, the user will have to manually opt-in to
    reply notifications.

    This setting will have no effect if ``reply-notifications`` are not enabled
    on the server.

    Default: ``false``

    .. versionadded:: 0.13


.. _data-isso-sorting:

data-isso-sorting
    Sort thread comments by specified sorting method.

    Possible sorting methods:

    - ``newest``: Bring newest comments to the top
    - ``oldest``: Bring oldest comments to the top
    - ``upvotes``: Bring most liked comments to the top

    Default sorting is ``oldest``.

    .. versionadded:: 0.13.1

Deprecated Client Settings
--------------------------

In earlier versions the following settings had to mirror the
corresponding settings in the server configuration, but they are now
read out from the server automatically.

data-isso-reply-to-self
    .. deprecated:: 0.12.6

    Set to ``true`` when spam guard is configured with ``reply-to-self = true``.

data-isso-require-author
    .. deprecated:: 0.12.6

    Set to ``true`` when spam guard is configured with ``require-author = true``.

data-isso-require-email
    .. deprecated:: 0.12.6

    Set to ``true`` when spam guard is configured with ``require-email = true``.

data-isso-reply-notifications
    .. deprecated:: 0.12.6

    Set to ``true`` when reply notifications is configured with ``reply-notifications = true``.

data-isso-gravatar
    .. deprecated:: 0.12.6

    Set to ``true`` when gravatars are enabled with ``gravatar = true`` in the
    server configuration.

data-isso-feed
    .. deprecated:: 0.13

    Enable or disable the addition of a link to the feed for the comment
    thread. The link will only be valid if the appropriate setting, in
    ``[rss]`` section, is also enabled server-side.
