docs/docs/configuration/setup.rst, before:

Setup
=====

Sub-URI
-------

You can run Isso on the same domain as your website, which circumvents issues
originating from CORS_. Also, privacy-protecting browser addons such as
`Request Policy`_ wont block comments.

.. code-block:: nginx

    server {
        listen       [::]:80;
        listen       [::]:443 ssl;
        server_name  example.tld;
        root         /var/www/example.tld;

        location /isso {
            proxy_set_header X-Forwarded-For $proxy_add_x_forwarded_for;
            proxy_set_header X-Script-Name /isso;
            proxy_pass http://localhost:8080;
        }
    }

Now, the website integration is just as described in :doc:`../quickstart` but
with a different location.

.. _CORS: https://developer.mozilla.org/en/docs/HTTP/Access_control_CORS
.. _Request Policy: https://www.requestpolicy.com/


.. _configure-multiple-sites:

Multiple Sites
--------------

Isso is designed to serve comments for a single website and therefore stores
comments for a relative URL to support HTTP, HTTPS and even domain transfers
without manual intervention. But you can chain Isso to support multiple
websites on different domains.

The following example uses `gunicorn <http://gunicorn.org/>`_ as WSGI server (
you can use uWSGI as well). Let's say you maintain two websites, like
foo.example and other.foo:

.. code-block:: sh

    $ cat /etc/isso.d/foo.example.cfg
    [general]
    host = http://foo.example/
    dbpath = /var/lib/isso/foo.example.db

    $ cat /etc/isso.d/other.foo.cfg
    [general]
    host = http://other.foo/
    dbpath = /var/lib/isso/other.foo.db

Then you run Isso using gunicorn:

.. code-block:: sh

    $ export ISSO_SETTINGS="/etc/isso.d/foo.example.cfg;/etc/isso.d/other.foo.cfg"
    $ gunicorn isso.dispatch -b localhost:8080

In your webserver configuration, proxy Isso as usual:

.. code-block:: nginx

      server {
          listen [::]:80;
          server_name comments.example;

          location / {
              proxy_pass http://localhost:8080;
              proxy_set_header X-Forwarded-For $proxy_add_x_forwarded_for;
              proxy_set_header X-Real-IP $remote_addr;
          }
      }

To verify the setup, run:

.. code-block:: sh

      $ curl -vH "Origin: http://foo.example" http://comments.example/
      ...
      $ curl -vH "Origin: http://other.foo" http://comments.example/
      ...

In case of a 418 (I'm a teapot), the setup is *not* correctly configured.

Commit message:

isso.dispatch now dispatches multiple sites based on relative URLs
The previous approach using a custom X-Custom header did work for the
client-side, but not for activation and deletion links. Now, you need
to add a `name = foo` option to the general section. `isso.dispatch`
then binds this configuration to /foo and can distinguish all API
calls without a special HTTP header.

docs/docs/configuration/setup.rst, after:

Setup
=====

Sub-URI
-------

You can run Isso on the same domain as your website, which circumvents issues
originating from CORS_. Also, privacy-protecting browser addons such as
`Request Policy`_ wont block comments.

.. code-block:: nginx

    server {
        listen       [::]:80;
        listen       [::]:443 ssl;
        server_name  example.tld;
        root         /var/www/example.tld;

        location /isso {
            proxy_set_header X-Forwarded-For $proxy_add_x_forwarded_for;
            proxy_set_header X-Script-Name /isso;
            proxy_pass http://localhost:8080;
        }
    }

Now, the website integration is just as described in :doc:`../quickstart` but
with a different location.

.. _CORS: https://developer.mozilla.org/en/docs/HTTP/Access_control_CORS
.. _Request Policy: https://www.requestpolicy.com/


.. _configure-multiple-sites:

Multiple Sites
--------------

Isso is designed to serve comments for a single website and therefore stores
comments for a relative URL to support HTTP, HTTPS and even domain transfers
without manual intervention. But you can chain Isso to support multiple
websites on different domains.

The following example uses `gunicorn <http://gunicorn.org/>`_ as WSGI server (
you can use uWSGI as well). Let's say you maintain two websites, like
foo.example and other.bar:

.. code-block:: sh

    $ cat /etc/isso.d/foo.example.cfg
    [general]
    name = foo
    host = http://foo.example/
    dbpath = /var/lib/isso/foo.example.db

    $ cat /etc/isso.d/other.bar.cfg
    [general]
    name = bar
    host = http://other.bar/
    dbpath = /var/lib/isso/other.bar.db

Then you run Isso with gunicorn (separate multiple configuration files by
semicolon):

.. code-block:: sh

    $ export ISSO_SETTINGS="/etc/isso.d/foo.example.cfg;/etc/isso.d/other.bar.cfg"
    $ gunicorn isso.dispatch -b localhost:8080

In your webserver configuration, proxy Isso as usual:

.. code-block:: nginx

      server {
          listen [::]:80;
          server_name comments.example;

          location / {
              proxy_pass http://localhost:8080;
          }
      }

When you now visit http://comments.example/, you will see your different Isso
configuration separated by /`name`.

.. code-block:: text

    $ curl http://comments.example/
    /foo
    /bar

Just embed the JavaScript including the new relative path, e.g.
*http://comments.example/foo/js/embed.min.js*. Make sure, you don't mix the
URLs on both sites as it will most likely cause CORS-related errors.
